chapter=3

title=Print Books!

sub=The Original Book Production Marathon

Śrīla Prabhupāda was producing the first volumes of his <em>Śrīmad-Bhāgavatam</em> as he was writing them at the Rādhā-Dāmodara temple. He had to oversee the production at every step, beginning with buying paper at the market. In India, it is not possible to simply order paper and expect that it will be delivered by truck to your front door. You must go to the manufacturer and choose from eight million different varieties of paper. You must see it being put on the wagon and walk with it to the printer yourself—or else that which arrives is guaranteed to be different from what you have ordered, much less than what you have paid for, of a lower quality, and completely dirty and messed up.

Therefore Śrīla Prabhupāda went to the paper merchant, chose the appropriate paper, bought what he needed, saw it being put on a hand cart, walked with it to the printer, delivered it, and got written confirmation. Then he would watch the first sheets being run off, and he would even correct them, being the writer, editor, and proofreader himself. Then he would buy the binding material and bring it to the bindery. In India, a book is bound by a group of old ladies who sit together in one room on the floor. They fold the pages by hand, and then, holding the loose pages with their feet, they sew it all together. Then these handbound books would have to be brought to another place for the covers to be put on. Again, the fabric for the cover must be bought beforehand. Then the fabric is handstretched over a piece of cardboard and the title is stamped on by hand. Finally, the cover is stuck onto the book with glue that has been brushed on by hand and a dust jacket is printed.

Nowadays we produce Śrīla Prabhupāda's books with a staff of ten to fifteen people—a translator, an editor, proofreaders, typists, composers, typesetters, layoutmen, cameramen—but Śrīla Prabhupāda produced his books alone, with a technology that was primitive. The type was set with single-lettered lead type. They didn't even have Linotypes, which produce one line at a time. How Śrīla Prabhupāda went through all these different stages is beyond the understanding of those of us used to making books with machines.

And at the same time that he was producing his books, he was writing a topical newspaper, the original <em>Back to Godhead</em>, wherein he made relevant comments on the hot news of the day. He would sell his newspaper to people while they sat in cafés and restaurants sipping their tea. He once told me that the Delhi streets were so hot that he was swooning as he walked along. One time he fainted from the heat and was almost run over by a car, but he was saved by a well-wishing passerby. Despite these difficulties he would go out and distribute his books and newspapers; and with the donations from these sales and a few other sources, he would buy more paper and gradually go on printing his books.

He went on printing his books even though he didn't have a clear idea how to sell them. He tried selling them through bookstores, but they were not moving very fast. He placed them in libraries and universities. And he presented them to the Prime Minister, who greatly appreciated them. From a mundaner's point of view, this was pure pounds, shillings, and pence business and had nothing to with spiritual life. But amazingly, Śrīla Prabhupāda was working just for Kṛṣṇa and his spiritual master, who had given him the mission to preach in the English language so that all the people of the world could benefit.

sub=Śrīla Prabhupāda's Request

We want to do everything according to Śrīla Prabhupāda's plan. He said, “I have given you the framework of this Kṛṣṇa consciousness movement. Now it is up to you to expand it by filling in the structure.” Therefore we like to fill in the framework with walls of books. Floors are not made out of books, for we don't walk on them. But walls of books are very nice, and we fill up the rooms with books too. Śrīla Prabhupāda told me in India, “I have many bank accounts. Empty them all out and just print books! Then fill up the temples with these books and bring the devotees together and tell them, “There is no more place to sleep. Now you must distribute a pile of books as big as you need for sleeping before you can take rest tonight.' And while they are out doing that, fill in the pile with more books for the next day.” He was serious. He wanted it done right then on the spot. He told me, “This man in charge of India is a miser. He is not giving out the books. Therefore I give you all my money. Just print and distribute books."

To this day we are using all of Śrīla Prabhupāda's <em>lakṣmi</em> in the same way. Nothing else is more important than producing books, regardless of what someone might say. So many times Śrīla Prabhupāda said what was important. Someone who did not associate very much with Śrīla Prabhupāda or surrender very much may not understand Prabhupāda's deep desires, but we can tell you for certain that we know what he wants it all begins with books, is sustained with books, and culminates with books. He wants the people to take his books, read them, and go back home, back to Godhead.

sub=Wake Up! Make Books!

Although we are concerned with everything, we are mainly concerned with printing and distributing books. Śrīla Prabhupāda's books are more important than anything else because producing and distributing these books is the primary way to worship Kṛṣṇa in the Age of Kali. We also like to worship the Deity and would never give that up, but if you compare the time we spend worshiping the Deity with the time we spend making books, you can understand the difference. A few of us crazy fanatics just make books all day and night, and we don't go anywhere else. I admit that I am a fanatic about making these books. There is no question about it. What can I do? Somebody has to be a fanatic.

No temple in the world is as happy as that temple where everybody is running around making books. Where book production is going on, there is all success; but where no book production or distribution is going on, there is no success. Therefore, in every one of our temples, we either print or distribute books; and where we do both, the ecstasy is doubled.

We love BBT fanatics. Others we love too, but those in the BBT who are not fanatics are traitors. It is blasphemy. Either you are a fanatic or you don't count. That is a radical point of view, but somehow Śrīla Prabhupāda instilled this madness in us; we cannot get rid of it, and we wouldn't even think of trying. He instilled complete, transcendental insanity within this unfortunate soul. “Make books! Make books! Make books!" rings in my head all day and night, and “Print books! Print books! Print books!" bounces off the walls of my skull. If we can produce more fanatics with this instruction constantly ringing in their heads, we will be very happy. We will haunt you. We will stand on your shoulder and scream in your ear: "Wake up! Make books!"

I am not going to be happy until every one of Śrīla Prabhupāda's books is available in every language of the world. Do you realize what this adds up to? If at the end of this lifetime we have filled ten rooms as big as this one* with different volumes of Prabhupāda's books, our birth will not have been in vain. BBT devotees should meditate day and night on how to achieve this goal. Nothing else is as important, because achieving this expands every other aspect of the Kṛṣṇa consciousness movement automatically.

sub=Print Books and Everything Will Be a Success

I say like a madman, “The basis of everything is producing books,” because the <em>rasa</em> of producing books like mad makes you totally insane. You don't do anything anymore the way normal people do. You become crazy. If you don't run around screaming, “Make books!” all day long, you are in <em>māyā</em> to one degree or another. Unless you make so many books that the machines blow up from overuse, you are not doing anything.

Everything good happens when you produce Śrīla Prabhupāda's books. It is mystical. I have seen in Germany that when we are producing books like madmen, the whole place becomes like Vaikuṇṭha. Everything starts developing: people start joining, money comes pouring in, the demons leave us alone. But as soon as <em>māyā</em> manages to trip us up, and book production stops, everything bad happens: the demons become big, we have money problems, nobody joins, people run away. Therefore I have concluded that the secret to success in all things is to make books. If you want to have a successful <em>gurukula</em> or farm, you just make books. And the way to cause disaster is to stop making books.

Śrīla Prabhupāda's program was to just print books and not worry about how they are going to be distributed. As the devotees see all the wonderful books come pouring out, they realize that they have to distribute them. You don't even have to give fired-up <em>saṅkīrtana</em> lectures—it happens automatically. As soon as you start making these books like complete madmen, Kṛṣṇa makes everything happen.

When I read how Śrīla Bhaktisiddhānta Sarasvatī Ṭhākura dealt with Śrīla Prabhupāda in the first volume of the <em>Śrīla Prabhupāda-lilāmṛta</em>, I can see that Śrīla Prabhupāda dealt with me similarly, although at the time I didn't understand these dealings. Śrīla Prabhupāda said to me many times, “You just preach to scholars, religionists, and philosophers. They will benefit, you will benefit, and all of mankind will be benefited. You just go out and preach, and if you ever get any money, print books.” Again and again he would say, “Oh, how my spiritual master was so satisfied just to see books printed!” He would always tell me about making books. He would say, "Your responsibility is to make every one of my books in every language on this planet.”

Therefore I can understand that the production of this transcendental literature is the primary mission, the vanguard of our movement. Everything else follows in a chain reaction automatically. ISKCON is like a big rocket, of which book production is the nose cone and book distribution the fuel stage.

sub=Pile Up the Books

We don't mind that devotees are engaged in many ways; but if nobody is preaching, we become very disturbed. Therefore we always want to be engaged in the only way that we can preach nicely to people—the book distribution mission. Radio preaching is also nice, but what will we say apart from what is in the books? And when people become a little favorable, what is the first thing we do? We give them a set of books! Thus the real potency comes from Śrīla Prabhupāda's books, and all other things are the servants of his books. Prabhupāda emphasized this in so many ways. Maybe I didn't learn very much from him, but I learned this. He drilled it into my head, and it will never go out!

Many personalities do many different services in this Kṛṣṇa consciousness movement. Śrīla Prabhupāda appreciated even the smallest service—those who cooked nicely, washed the floor nicely, or whatever the service might be —as long as it was carried out with enthusiasm. But I like to do nothing more than pile up books on his desk, because that is what he said I should do. I would write many letters to Śrīla Prabhupāda, describing my plans to preach in different ways, but Prabhupāda simply answered, “I don't care to hear about all these things. I will simply be satisfied to see the books piling up on my desk.”

Every year we go to Mayapur with a stack of books, and we sneak into Prabhupāda's room and pile the books on his desk without even arranging them nicely, because that is what he wants. I enjoy that moment very much, because to produce and distribute Śrīla Prabhupāda's books in places where it is strictly forbidden, in corners of the world that we cannot even write about in the <em>saṅkīrtana</em> newsletter, is so much work, and there seems to be very little appreciation. But when we pile those books on his desk, it makes it all worthwhile.

sub=We Have No Other Mood

Toward the end of Śrīla Prabhupāda's manifested pastimes on the planet, I brought him an offering of books that was significant then, but nowadays we would not even consider it a month's production. This little pile of books included a Yugoslavian <em>Īśopaniṣad</em> produced in a super <em>mahā</em> marathon.

A theosophist in Yugoslavia, who was not a devotee nor very intelligent, had made a good translation, so we had it typeset in Frankfurt by a nice lady named Becker. This lady made a marathon because I told her that Śrīla Prabhupāda's condition was bad; we didn't know how long he would live, so I wanted to offer him as many books as I could to inspire him to go on living. Somehow she understood and dedicated all her time to typesetting this <em>Īśopaniṣad</em> for Śrīla Prabhupāda. She put aside all other jobs and finished the book in a couple of days.

She was a super pro. Books were not typeset then by computerized typesetting machines. They were done by hand on special composing typewriters that made ink-on-paper copies. When we got a stack of these paper copies from her, I worked the whole night laying out the book. By the time I had finished I could hardly see the pages. Yet the next morning a Yugoslavian boy and I went to the typesetting shop, where we all worked together in one room; he proofread, she composed, and I made the corrections.

Three days prior to this I had been to our printers, Mohndruck. I also had explained to them about Śrīla Prabhupāda's condition, which meant a lot to them since we were big customers. I said that I wanted to produce this book for him but they only had one day to do it. They would get the original draft of the book by five-thirty in the afternoon, but we needed the book back in our hands by seven o'clock the next morning, completely printed. This job normally takes two or three weeks. One must make transparencies, do opaquing or scratching, check it, and make a montage before it can be printed; and one must print the cover and the pages before it is bound. They were scratching their heads because no one in history had ever asked them to do something like this before, but they mobilized their entire company and just did it—the most purifying thing they had ever done in their lives.

The printers were in Bielefeld, but we were producing the original flats for the books in Frankfurt, an almost four-hour's drive away. We had a running car waiting outside with a devotee in it who loved to drive like a madman. We told him, “This time it's authorized and bona fide to drive as fast as you want,” gave him the flats, and he drove off like a madman. The printers, who had been working all night, gave the printed and bound book to our driver, who drove back like a madman, and I had the book in my hand by the time I got on the plane for India.

Meanwhile, another marathon was going on at another printer down south in Ulm. They were printing, in German, three <em>Kṛṣṇa</em> books and the Second Canto in two volumes. But they couldn't cut and put together the covers in time. So with a cutter in my office at Schloss Rettershof, we cut and put on the covers ourselves.

Then I flew off to India. When I gave the books to Śrīla Prabhupāda, the mood in the room changed. He focused his attention entirely on the books. He was very appreciative and looked at them for a long time. When he saw the Yugoslavian <em>Īśopaniṣad</em>, his first question was, "Can you distribute this book?” Knowing well there was no way to distribute it, for the Yugoslavian preaching program at that time consisted of myself and one assistant, I said, “Certainly, Śrīla Prabhupāda, we will distribute these books," and he replied, "Good. As soon as you can distribute some books, you should reprint them.”

If you truly love someone, you are only interested in what he wants. Therefore, to please Śrīla Prabhupāda, we constantly push to produce and distribute books. Everything else is just decoration, icing on the cake —but book production and distribution is the cake. This is how we feel. We don't mind if people disagree, but we have no other mood.

sub=How Śrīla Prabhupāda Appears

Śrīla Prabhupāda's disappearance day used to be a horrible affair for me because I had always been dependent on his personal presence for shelter. Once I was lamenting to him because I wanted to have a more loving relationship with my superior Godbrothers, and he told me, “They will never appreciate, no matter what you do, but I have recognized and Kṛṣṇa has recognized; isn't that enough?” I realized then how my relationship with Śrīla Prabhupāda is a personal one; but when he left, where was that relationship?

I have been understanding more and more that the only relationship I have with Śrīla Prabhupāda is through his books. And because his books are his glory, I want to print and distribute these books all over the world. He may have disappeared from this planet personally, but he appears constantly in new languages and different cultures. Śrīla Prabhupāda will live forever in his books. He is his books, and his purports are his transcendental ecstasies. They can change the life of a fallen soul who has had no contact with Prabhupāda and is somewhere far away. Therefore on Śrīla Prabhupāda's disappearance day, I wanted to glorify him by showing how he appears.

Although many ways to glorify Śrīla Prabhupāda are being presented wonderfully on this occasion, I would like to present and explain a little bit about these newly produced books—not only for Śrīla Prabhupāda's pleasure, but also to emphasize the importance of this glorious activity. Prabhupāda always liked to show off to people the wonderful and important message being spread throughout the world in the form of his books.

Today we are offering for Śrīla Prabhupāda's pleasure twenty-two books in eight different languages. The smallest book is the only book Śrīla Prabhupāda ever specifically asked me to make. Six years ago he asked me to make this book. Because of many difficulties it has taken a long time to complete this task, but because Prabhupāda considered this translation important and because he desired it, we have been able to complete it. This book contains, in Russian, the <em>Śrī Īśopaniṣad</em> and three other small books from Prabhupāda's lecture series. It is in a small form because it goes to a demoniac place. Nevertheless, KGB agents thought that they would get on our good side if they helped us translate it. We are grateful for their unwitting assistance. They even helped us smuggle the Russian <em>Bhagavad-gītā</em> into the country.

Everybody should take up this mission to print and distribute Prabhupāda's books throughout the world. This already is being done wonderfully in many places, but this world is big and we are few. If you really want to grab the mercy of Śrīla Prabhupāda's lotus feet, I advise you to go to a country where Kṛṣṇa consciousness is not yet established, translate Śrīla Prabhupāda's books into the local language, distribute them, and see how many people come to Kṛṣṇa. You can get the spark within your heart and capture the mood that Śrīla Prabhupāda had when he started this movement in the mid-sixties. Giving people Prabhupāda's books and the holy name is the most wonderful way to glorify Śrīla Prabhupāda.

Śrīla Prabhupāda said, “You can judge the result of your preaching according to how many books are being distributed.” I remember January 1977, when Bhaktibhūṣaṇa and Bhaktivaibhava Mahārājas were distributing books in Poland, Śrīla Prabhupāda wrote, “I have heard about your preaching activities. They are very nice, but I also have heard that you are distributing my books. Now I know everything will be a success because wherever my books are distributed the preaching will be successful.”

footnote=* The room was big enough to hold approximately 70,000 <em>mahā</em> books; thus ten rooms would mean 700,000 <em>mahā</em> books.

