chapter=8

title=The Effects of Saṅkīrtana

sub=Fulfilling Kṛṣṇa's Plan

Kṛṣṇa always has a plan for the ultimate good of the living entities, and the devotee assists in fulfilling His plan by becoming His tool or instrument. Some may consider this difficult, but whatever Kṛṣṇa desires can be accomplished; we only have to understand how to do it, and Śrīla Prabhupāda has given us the means to do it. Śrīla Prabhupāda's program is for all of us, and with the process he has given, we will satisfy Kṛṣṇa. If Kṛṣṇa is satisfied, why would we need to come up with anything else? Therefore, we engage in the publication and distribution of Śrīla Prabhupāda's transcendental books throughout the world, because this will satisfy Kṛṣṇa. It is the perfect way in which Kṛṣṇa's plan may manifest. This literature is eternal, and our business is to somehow or other get these books in the hands of everyone in the human form of life, regardless of their language.

sub=Lord Caitanya's Prediction

Śrī Caitanya Mahāprabhu said that for ten thousand years there will be a rapid increase in Kṛṣṇa consciousness and for two thousand years it will be like Satya-yuga. Golden ages do not just come because they have been predicted. It is not that everybody will be hellish rascals—living like hogs, dogs, camels, and asses, eating stool and liking it—and then all of a sudden, because of some astrological influences, “boom” comes the Golden Age and everybody is in Satya-yuga. It doesn't happen like that. It will happen when Lord Caitanya's mercy is manifested throughout the world. Everybody has to get the mercy. Therefore we are distributing these books like mad; otherwise, there is no question of the Golden Age starting.

Some of Śrīla Prabhupāda's Godbrothers thought that Lord Caitanya's prediction, <em>pṛthivīte āche yata nagarādi grāma, sarvatra pracāra haibe mora nāma</em>, “In every town and village throughout the world the holy name will be heard,” was an impossible dream or a mystical theory. But when the Hare Kṛṣṇa <em>mantra</em> was resounding in all towns and villages throughout the world, they praised Prabhupāda for making what seemed to have been a myth into fact.

We should not fall into the trap of doubting that a golden age of Kṛṣṇa consciousness will come. We should know for sure that by distributing Śrīla Prabhupāda's books, Lord Caitanya's prediction will be fulfilled. Ultimately everything comes from distributing these books.

An increasing number of intelligent people will get Prabhupāda's books. Śrīla Prabhupāda wanted his books read by people with intellectual capacity; therefore he started the library parties and college preaching programs. Intelligent persons will realize how to surrender to Kṛṣṇa by reading Śrīla Prabhupāda's books, or they will be forced to surrender by the material nature. Then they will join our movement, and if they do not join immediately, they will soon begin to subtly act in a Kṛṣṇa conscious way. Wherever Śrīla Prabhupāda's books are being distributed in mass numbers, we discover people who have been reading them for years but not saying anything. Sometimes these people hold influential positions within the society—many politicians already have Prabhupāda's books, and many of them believe what they read and start saying and doing amazing things.

Many people are reading the books. Books are handed out in airports in San Francisco, Los Angeles, Denver, New York, Chicago, Atlanta, or Honolulu, and then they are taken to far-off corners of the world. From the most outrageous places, people write us letters, saying that they are so impressed with these books that they want a catalog.

sub=Kṛṣṇa's Propaganda Network

Every house is being infiltrated by Śrīla Prabhupāda's books. They sit on the shelf, emitting a shining effulgence and emanating spiritual ecstasy and little vibrations of piety. It is like having a Deity. One day, the people will become attracted. Their hand will go across the bookshelf and somehow reach out for the <em>Bhagavad-gītā</em>, though they think that the <em>Bhagavad-gītā</em> is not the book that they want. They think that they want some book about sex, drinking, and crime, yet they pull out the <em>Bhagavad-gītā</em> and start to read it. And they know, "Oh, no, I'm reading about God! It will ruin my life.” But it is so attractive that they have to keep on reading. As the attractive potency of these books gradually forces people to surrender to Kṛṣṇa, they find that their lives become perfect. They find everything that they were missing: happiness, ecstasy, energy, enthusiasm. Everything that was taken away from them by the demoniac elements of society, they get back a hundredfold.

When they met a devotee, took a book, and gave a donation, they didn't think much about it. It was a short experience that maybe only took five minutes; the person was friendly, but one meets many friendly people in this world. But by taking the book home, putting it on the shelf, and reading it, their life changed.

We may think that because we meet so many people during the day, for a person to receive Śrīla Prabhupāda's books is a common occurrence. But actually it is the most profound experience in that person's life; it is the most important thing that he has ever done in 8,400,000 lifetimes.

Distribution of this literature changes people's lives. People are being influenced by a few big demons in this world through their propaganda network—the TV, the radio, and the newspapers. Yet Kṛṣṇa has His propaganda network and Prabhupāda has written all the propaganda. And we are the propagandists, eager to distribute books in every language of the world. We want people to understand that volumes of literature have been written about Kṛṣṇa and our relationship with Him. If people hear about Kṛṣṇa, then their lives will become perfect.

Therefore we should distribute with earnestness. We should understand that people in the world today have little hope. This world is coming to a crushing conclusion. Disturbances are everywhere. The situation bewilders people. Yet we offer an alternative. We can help people become free from the ravages of material nature by distributing millions of books. We should not be satisfied with a marathon that lasts only a week. We should want to make the marathon last our entire lives. Instead of thinking that we will do it for a certain amount of time and afterward enjoy, we should realize that this human form of life doesn't last long-maybe it will last fifty or sixty years or maybe only five more minutes—and make our lives a marathon, producing and distributing books to bring people back home, back to Godhead.

sub=These Books Stop Wars

Our Kṛṣṇa consciousness movement is based on <em>tapo divyam</em>, transcendental austerity. To go out and preach, moving from place to place as saṅkīrtaners do, is an austerity. To stay in a different place every night is uncomfortable—the situation is unfamiliar, and one has to struggle to accomplish even the smallest thing. We understand how difficult it is, for we have also traveled nonstop for many years. Still a devotee prefers to move around and preach, because this austerity keeps one strong and detached from the material world.

The austerity of distributing Śrīla Prabhupāda's books to people who think they don't want them is an austerity that purifies the distributor, the person he meets, and the entire area. Although the people's <em>karma</em> dictates that they should suffer, they are only getting a little taste of their prescribed <em>karma</em> because of this transcendental <em>saṅkīrtana</em> mission. That is not to say that it will not get worse, but were it not for book distribution, the suffering would already be so bad that you could not imagine it.

The performance of <em>saṅkīrtana</em> by distributing Śrīla Prabhupāda's transcendental books enables a country to become a more auspicious place. Śrīla Prabhupāda once said that the threat of war is imminent, but if we distribute these books in Russia and America, the threat of war will reduce considerably. That is exactly what happened. However, in places in which <em>saṅkīrtana</em> is not allowed or is forcibly stopped, the suffering condition increases. We might surmise that the only thing keeping the material world together right now is book distribution. Of course, others might contest and say that we are fanatics. Yet you still cannot deny the possibility that without book distribution the world situation would be disastrous, because Kali-yuga is such a degraded time.

Therefore we must perform this <em>saṅkīrtana</em> austerity. Happiness and suffering will come automatically anyway, so why should we endeavor for these things? Let us do the best for everyone, including ourselves, by engaging in transcendental austerity that will benefit the whole world.

sub=As the Material World Falls Apart

The effect that distributing tons of Śrīla Prabhupāda's books will have is beyond imagination. Although we may not perceive it immediately, as the conditions of life become worse, we will see people become more inclined to take shelter of Prabhupāda's books. Now they are in the illusion that they are happily situated, but troubles are coming. These foolish people will gradually come to understand that this material world is a frustrating place, and by taking shelter of Śrīla Prabhupāda's books, they will be able to get free from all miserable conditions of life and go back home, back to Godhead.

We should consider every day of the year a marathon and try to please Śrīla Prabhupāda and Śrī Śrī Gaura-Nitāi by always preaching Kṛṣṇa consciousness and always increasing the distribution of these books. Śrī Śrī Gaura-Nitāi are very merciful, spreading <em>saṅkīrtana</em> fever and blessing the <em>saṅkīrtana</em> mission. Everyone should take shelter of Their Lordships' lotus feet and try to expand this Kṛṣṇa consciousness movement, so that more and more people can take shelter in it and, in turn, further spread the mercy of this movement throughout the world.

sub=A Systematic Attack on Māyā

One can only understand the Supreme when one follows in the footsteps of one who has achieved the Supreme. This Kṛṣṇa consciousness movement follows in Śrīla Prabhupāda's footsteps, because we know that he has obtained Kṛṣṇa and can give us Kṛṣṇa. That is why we study Śrīla Prabhupāda's books and distribute them to others. Even if we did nothing else, this book distribution alone would transform the world. <em>Śrīmad-Bhāgavatam</em> says that it is meant to spark off a revolution in the hearts of the people within a misdirected civilization.

We are launching a systematic attack on <em>māyā</em>, like termites go into wood, so that <em>māyā</em> cracks from within. When termites burrow into a piece of wood, they permeate everywhere, eating out little holes here and there throughout. Then one day somebody steps on the piece of wood and it cracks into pieces. Everyone is bewildered because the piece of wood looked so strong, but suddenly it was finished. And then they realize that the termites had been eating it all the time, but nobody knew, because they could not be seen. Thus all of our little Kṛṣṇa conscious termites can defeat the material energy and make the real revolution by going out and eating away at the <em>māyā</em> of this material world by distributing books.

sub=Double It and Break the Camel's Back

Śrīla Prabhupāda wanted us to double book distribution every year, because these books weigh heavy on the demons' shoulders and purify the land of contamination.

Once a cruel camel driver put load after load on the back of his camel, until the camel's legs were shaking under the load. Then the driver put on one more straw, and the camel collapsed to the ground. Thus in English we have a saying, “The straw that broke the camel's back.” This materialistic society is trying to keep itself together while books are being piled up on its back, and one day, one last book will make the whole materialistic society crash.

All the books that we have been distributing have to make a big dent in the roof of ignorance that the demons have covered the land with. This roof has blocked the wonderful ray of Kṛṣṇa from shining on the people. Because everyone under this roof is as useless as they are, the demons had thought that they were safe and that nobody would be capable of bringing God to them. But then Śrīla Prabhupāda came to America with his books, and since then, many books have been steadily going under the demons' roof and spreading everywhere—to every house, every corner, every street, every town. Soon, every house will have at least one set.

sub=Literature for Paramahaṁsas

Mundane literature has to be spiced up with sufficient sex life to make it sell. Consequently, when mundaners understand that Śrīla Prabhupāda's books are about spiritual life and are not filled with sex, violence, and other nasty things, they cannot understand how the books can possibly be good. But if you explain that these books are meant for the spiritual elevation of the human mind and consciousness, that human society's present situation is leading not to happiness but to frustration and suffering, and that the miseries of birth, death, old age, and disease are fixed realities, then they may become interested and buy a book.

Many people become interested and take our books. The expansion of this Kṛṣṇa consciousness movement has given rise to a slight increase in interest for spiritual existence. People have some small understanding that the “scripture of the crows" is not going to get anyone very far. It merely will lead to rebirth and enjoyment of the crowlike pleasures of this material world. We pray to Kṛṣṇa that this small increase in spiritual awareness will increase and that people will welcome these books. These books are literature meant for the swanlike class of men. If all the devotees pray to Kṛṣṇa that the people of this world will develop the qualities of paramahaṁsas, interested not only in eating, sleeping, mating, and defending, but also in the swanlike activities of hearing and chanting the transcendental glories of the Supreme Personality of Godhead, this world could become a wonderful place in which everybody is spiritually satisfied, like Vaikuṇṭha. Śrīla Prabhupāda did not write his books with some ideal intention of just selling a few books to a few interested people. He wanted these books distributed far and wide to all the people of this world, so that they can become Kṛṣṇa conscious.

sub=Valuable Gems

When we distribute Śrīla Prabhupāda's books, we are distributing the perfect literature—the most valuable gems, the diamonds, of transcendental literature. Most people have never been educated to differentiate between a real diamond and some flashy glass. Thus, when they have been handed a book, they may or may not immediately appreciate its value, because they do not know what a diamond is. They cannot understand why anyone would give them something so wonderful, because they do not know about the deep mercy and compassion of the devotees, who go out and distribute these books just to save the fools and rascals. And because these fools lack sufficient intelligence, they sometimes foolishly become upset and throw books away. Śrīla Prabhupāda wrote in a letter to the German devotees, “In a madhouse, sometimes the patient is so crazy that he strikes the doctor. But the doctor has to be tolerant and understand that he must expect such behavior from a crazy man.” In this world many crazy or just plain dull people cannot understand a good thing, presented right before them. But it doesn't matter; we go out anyway with determination and distribute these books in great numbers. In this way, we will be able to gradually change many people's lives. These books will get into high places, and important people will start to read them, and gradually things will change in a very nice way. Have faith that these wonderful books are forcing <em>māyā</em> to loosen her stranglehold on human society and are weakening the results of Kali.

sub=If There Were a Proper King

Nowadays nobody performs sacrifices, because people have forgotten how to do it. But if there were a proper king, then he would keep the <em>brāhmaṇas</em> engaged in offering sacrifices for the sake of humanity. He would engage us, the Hare Kṛṣṇa devotees, in distributing Śrīla Prabhupāda's books throughout his kingdom. He would supply us with <em>saṅkīrtana</em> vans, buses, and places to stay in each village and town. He would arrange for accommodation facilities, parking spaces, and book storage warehouses. He would ask us to go door-to-door and supply us with the main positions on the streets. A law in his kingdom would state that every house must have a <em>Bhagavad-gītā</em>.

Such a king would know that everyone in his kingdom would benefit from <em>saṅkīrtana-yajña</em>. For example, on <em>saṅkīrtana</em> one performs <em>dānam</em>, the giving of charity. The book distributor gives in charity the greatest gift of transcendental literature, and the conditioned souls give in charity some of their wealth.

sub=The Visible Effects

Sometimes devotees, younger devotees especially, express doubts about the effectiveness of the <em>saṅkīrtana</em> movement. This is because they cannot see the effect directly, but they should understand that their coming to this movement is an effect. They are living proof of the effectiveness of <em>saṅkīrtana</em>. And the effect is seen also in how many people come to the temples for the Sunday Feast every week.

The effects are also visible over a longer period of time. Twenty years ago nobody talked about vegetarianism. Universities did not offer vegetarian cooking courses. New York City had only two vegetarian restaurants. They were right next door to each other on St. Mark's Place, and they were frequented by only a few old beatniks and hippies. Talk about reincarnation was also never heard in public or in the media nor discussed in the schools. No one knew what the word <em>karma</em> meant. John Lennon made a song about karma, and everybody started wondering what it was and where he had heard about it.

Nowadays everybody knows what reincarnation and <em>karma</em> are. The United States of America alone has thousands of vegetarian restaurants—every city has one. Everybody talks about vegetarianism. Some people in England have formed a movement called the "Animal Liberation Front.” These people have taken up guerrilla warfare. They attack butcher shops and smash the windows. They poison meat to make people stop eating it. They go to vivisection laboratories for animal testing, rescuing the animals and destroying the laboratories. Fifteen or twenty years ago, such a movement was unheard of. Also many movies contain scenes or dialogue about reincarnation or karma, which the demons then try to disprove with their movies. A huge battle is going on in the world now between these two sides.

A conflict is even going on among the scientists. Many scientists are putting forward ideas that completely contradict the nonsensical orthodox scientific propaganda. Even the Christians are trying to make a revival, talking about creation as opposed to Darwinistic evolution. Who started all this? You may say what you like, but I will tell you that it is because of Prabhupāda's books. It is not because Maharishi or Rajneesh is preaching. The weight of Śrīla Prabhupāda's books is being felt on this world, and every year the pressure becomes more intense. Fighting is going on in all levels of society. Vegetarians are fighting against nonvegetarians. Doctors are proclaiming, “Stop eating meat.” In America people are fighting about whether there should be prayer in school, and God was one of the biggest issues in their last presidential election. People are talking about morality and the family again instead of illicit sex. Abortion is being exposed as murder. Kṛṣṇa has so mercifully caused AIDS and herpes. People are having a revolution in consciousness, and it is coming from the distribution of Śrīla Prabhupāda's books.

Previously, nobody was interested in these things, but now so many people are interested, and the demons are so interested in stopping it. In the beginning, we did not have many problems with the demons. We would be chanting on the streets, and maybe once a month a demon would try to give us trouble. But then book distribution started, and the demons came out of the walls, like rats attracted by cheese. And when we started to distribute many books, the demons became hysterical because they thought that they had killed God. “What? Books about God?” they said. “Destroy them!” And they started to make false accusations in an attempt to stop the Kṛṣṇa consciousness movement.

This book distribution is wonderful because it splits society words in half. Book distribution forces the nice people to become nicer and the demons to become more demoniac. The demons are going after sense gratification in an outright demoniac fashion, and the devotionally-minded are moving toward a higher state of consciousness. We will go on flooding the world with Śrīla Prabhupāda's books, for the weight of his books will force a change—after the people read them and become enlightened in knowledge, they will insist on a positive transformation of society.

sub=“Crack” Goes This Rotten Civilization

No one is more glorious than a <em>saṅkīrtana</em> devotee because he distributes Śrīla Prabhupāda's mercy, by which the world will never be the same again. I want to share with you a story that some social psychologists tell, because it is relevant to book distribution.

Some islands in the Pacific were inhabited by monkeys who dug up sweet potatoes, being the only food there for the monkeys to eat. But because they were not very smart, the monkeys were crunching on dirt along with the sweet potatoes, until one day, on one of the islands one monkey thought, "Why do I have to eat these potatoes with the crunchies? I'll bring them to the ocean, wash them off, and eat them without to the crunchies." From then on his sweet potatoes tasted wonderful, and the monkey shared them with his family members, who also started washing their sweet potatoes. Gradually, more and more monkeys on the island started washing their sweet potatoes. When ninety-five percent of the monkeys on the island started to wash their sweet potatoes, a monkey on a nearby island suddenly decided to wash his sweet potatoes in the ocean. Soon, when all the monkeys on that island were also washing their sweet potatoes, the monkeys on the next island also spontaneously started to wash their sweet potatoes. There was no communication between the islands, no monkey mail. Just because ninety-five percent of the monkeys on one island were doing it, all the monkeys on the next island started doing it, until all the monkeys in these islands of the Pacific were washing their sweet potatoes in the ocean.

Although this example is mundane, I was meditating on it because it has a direct link to our distribution of Śrīla Prabhupāda's books. We are distributing his books, and we are going to just keep on distributing his books, until the weight of these books on the human society will be so great that one country will suddenly crack and all the people in that country become Kṛṣṇa conscious. Then the next country will crack, and the people will become Kṛṣṇa conscious. All countries around the world will become Kṛṣṇa conscious because of all the books out being distributed by the devotees. Just see how many books have suddenly been distributed in Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union. One year only a few books were going out underground, and the next year hundreds of thousands of books were going out publicly. How is it happening? It is happening because of the domino principle: all the dominoes are lined up next to each other. When you push over the first domino, it pushes over the second one, which pushes over the third, and so on, until all the dominoes fall over. Because we had been distributing Śrīla Prabhupāda's books throughout the world, the pressure on the Soviet Union was so great that it had to crack.

Śrīla Prabhupāda's books are being distributed by the hundreds, thousands, and millions throughout the year. We should have full, transcendental faith that this book distribution mission is going to make a big impact in this world. It is not even a question of how, where, when, or why. It will happen because Śrīla Prabhupāda said that it would happen. In 1977, he said that historians would look back on this time in history, the latter part of the twentieth century, and they would see the revolutionary seeds that were planted to change the face of this planet. We may not be able to see it, because sometimes we are fruitive. We think that unless everybody in the world is chanting in <em>kīrtana</em>, we haven't been a success. Nevertheless, it will come to pass. The people will have so many books constantly emanating Kṛṣṇa consciousness in their homes that every time someone walks by, he will be affected. At one point someone will pick up the book, read it, and change his life.

In this way we are gradually wearing down the defenses of this material civilization, so that the whole world is coming to know who Kṛṣṇa and Śrīla Prabhupāda are and what this Kṛṣṇa consciousness movement is all about. The people will have no other choice than to surrender to Kṛṣṇa. This rotten materialistic civilization will crumble, and a Kṛṣṇa conscious civilization will arise. Kṛṣṇa consciousness is the only solution. The materialists have tried everything else, but nothing else works. Therefore we should go on distributing as many books as we can. It doesn't matter if you are in first, second, or tenth place. All that matters is that you are in a place, distributing Śrīla Prabhupāda's books as much as you can. Nothing is more important than to go on steadily distributing books, so let us continue to give people Kṛṣṇa consciousness and make our lives successful. And at the end, we will all go back home, back to Godhead together.

