chapter=9

title=The Topmost Preaching

sub=I'm a Fanatic

Śrīla Prabhupāda has told us what the prime benediction is, what we should do, and how we should act. He has stated clearly, “There is no more direct way to preach than to distribute Kṛṣṇa conscious books.” Therefore we have traveling preaching teams, who take piles of books and distribute them in every town and village, encouraging the people to surrender to Kṛṣṇa. Then when someone becomes very sincere, he joins Caitanya Mahāprabhu's <em>saṅkīrtana</em> party. Thus taking a book of Śrīla Prabhupāda's and putting it into the hand of a materialist is the topmost and most direct preaching.

In our classes over the years, we have explained the philosophy in many ways, but hopefully you have noticed an overriding theme in them. The only reason I don't just jump up and down all the time and scream, “Distribute books, distribute books, distribute books!" is because you would get bored. But that is how I feel. I am a fanatic! Maybe I don't look like a fanatic. I try to be fair. But actually I am a fanatic, and I have always been a fanatic. An uncontrollable madness wells up in me, and I have no other desire than to see millions of books distributed. I am also satisfied to see other projects developing—but only if the books are going out. Otherwise I cannot tolerate anything else. I support everybody in every service, but in my heart I only care about book distribution. I am sorry, because there are so many other programs that everybody else considers important, but the most important program is distributing books. Śrīla Prabhupāda once wrote to one devotee, "What is the use of your three minutes preaching? They will listen to you and say that you are very nice, but then they will go away and quickly forget everything you said. But if you give them a book, they will read it or at least somehow get benefited.”

sub=The Big Bang of Books

“A big bang of books was started by Śrīla Prabhupāda, and a change occurred within the universe. As the books scattered in all directions, by chance some of them landed in different homes, and by chance the people read them and became Kṛṣṇa conscious. Thus the world changed.”

But these occurrences were not directed by chance, in the same way that the universal creation was not a product of chance. It is not by chance that people take these books, read them, and go back home, back to Godhead. It is not by chance that billions and trillions of books will be distributed. It is the perfect arrangement of the Lord.

Sometimes devotees ask me, “Is it right that I set a quota and then pray to Kṛṣṇa to reach that quota, or should I just try to do as much as I can?” They do not want to demand a result from Kṛṣṇa. But whatever you consider your quota to be, Kṛṣṇa's quota for you is much higher. If you are only trying to do one-third of Kṛṣṇa's quota, what is the big deal if you are praying to Kṛṣṇa to help you. Kṛṣṇa's quota for you is 10,000 books a day! But you set a quota of twenty, fifty, or a hundred and are proud of your quota. You don't know that Kṛṣṇa wants everything from you. Whatever you think your quota is, you can multiply it by a hundred, and then you may be near to what Kṛṣṇa's quota is for you.

You have to surrender and give up all conceptions, such as, “I am the doer, the enjoyer, the knower, and the intelligent one. See how expert I am!" Your only purpose should be to perform the service that you have been given within this mission with full enthusiasm, dedication, devotion, and love.

We are an army, not a little bunch of people who have gotten together to have a party. We are marching against the demons! We don't like the demons, and we don't like their civilization. We don't want to have anything to do with their civilization. We want to crush their civilization. We are an army, we don't mess around, and we are not playing games. Our mission is to crush and destroy the demoniac civilization with books!

sub=It Is Possible

We are going to bomb the demons to death with books. Although the demons are bewildered about how it is happening, more and more people are getting Śrīla Prabhupāda's books. We will give out books to every house and corner. Lord Nityānanda cut a canal from the ocean of ecstasy, brought it to every door, and blew the houses down. Similarly, we are distributing ecstasy all over the world. And yet we are not satisfied. When was Śrīla Prabhupāda ever satisfied? When did he ever sit back and say, “Yes, my dear disciples, now you have done it. I am fully satisfied.” Never! He said, “More. Double it!” We thought, "Impossible,” but he said, "What is impossible? Double it means do twice as much."

We have to double it, otherwise there is no question of building the biggest building on the Asian continent. The Hare Kṛṣṇa movement, which ten years ago was wearing one blue sock and one red sock, is now building the biggest building in Asia. Lord Nityānanda predicted it and Śrīla Bhaktivinoda Ṭhākura saw it. Still that does not mean “poof” and automatically the building will be there. We have to seriously and sincerely give up all material desires for our own sense gratification, run out the door like transcendental madmen, and distribute books all over the world.

Don't think that it is not possible to get so many books out. If you think that it is not possible, it is not possible. But as soon as you think that it is possible, it is possible. Upon hearing the spiritual master's order, the low-class devotee says, "Impossible. I will never be able to do it,” but the high-class devotee says, “Although it may not be possible, my spiritual master told me to do it, so I'll do it. I have no idea how, but I'll pray to the lotus feet of the Lord and Śrīla Prabhupāda to make it possible.” Anything is possible if it is the order of the spiritual master. The order of the spiritual master makes the impossible possible.

In spiritual life it is extremely important to act in a way that pleases the spiritual master because when he is pleased with us, he will give us the mercy by which we can do impossible things. That book distribution should continually increase is from a material viewpoint practically impossible, yet by Śrīla Prabhupāda's mercy book distribution continues to increase year after year. Therefore we should throw ourselves down in front of Śrīla Prabhupāda at least three times a day and beg for his blessings and mercy to continue to advance in spiritual life, to develop our devotional qualities, and to increase this <em>saṅkīrtana</em> mission. By Śrīla Prabhupāda's mercy, Lord Śrī Kṛṣṇa will be pleased with us. And when Kṛṣṇa is pleased, He will bestow upon us His causeless mercy and bless us to always be able to increase our preaching. Success in preaching comes only when we depend fully on the spiritual master and get his mercy.

sub=Making the Spiritual Master's Order Your Order

No matter what happens we will go on producing and distributing Śrīla Prabhupāda's books. If a time ever comes when that is not happening, then I am prepared to make the money to produce and distribute the books myself. I will get a job digging ditches if necessary. Anything against production and distribution of books can be rejected. We would rather die than give up distributing books! That is the feeling that Śrīla Prabhupāda has implanted in me.

A disciple should not think of anything other than fulfilling the order of the spiritual master. He should meditate on how to make that order his goal in life, for by that he will attain perfection. Even if for some reason he may not be able to fulfill the order immediately, he should with complete and utter surrender meditate on how to get to the point of fulfilling it.

The order for book distribution has descended through the disciplic succession, so it is a very important instruction and we all must follow it. The mercy of this book distribution will transform the face of this world. We have already seen so many transformations taking place, for example, all the changes in Eastern Europe. Of course, we do not take credit for all of the changes, but the intense effort to distribute large quantities of Śrīla Prabhupāda's books creates an auspicious atmosphere for change. Our book distribution is making a wholesale revolution, because by teaching people the spiritual quality of life, they will naturally and automatically want to change the way this modern society is running. More and more persons will become interested in spiritual life, give up eating meat, fish, and eggs, and start to realize that Kṛṣṇa consciousness is something special.

Although the external symptoms of transformation may not be easily seen, that so many people already have books is evidence that a revolution is taking place. Rohiṇīsuta Prabhu was telling me that when he offers books to the people in Zurich, they say, “I already have thirty of them.” Such persons are becoming auspicious. When people have this science of Kṛṣṇa consciousness in their homes, preaching to them is easy. These books are the life and soul of the preaching mission, so let us keep the order of the spiritual master to produce and distribute books in the forefront of our consciousness and make it our life and soul.

sub=Think Big

In a war the enemy always puts up a front. You may decimate them with bombs, but they will claim that no damage was done. One side reports eight million of the enemy killed, and the other side reports only twenty-two people lost in battle but five billion of the enemy killed. In a war everybody makes propaganda. In the war between <em>māyā</em> and this Kṛṣṇa consciousness movement, <em>māyā</em> is putting up a big front as if we were not effective. But that is not the truth. <em>Māyā</em> may be reporting over her radio waves that she has scored big successes over Kṛṣṇa consciousness and that Kṛṣṇa consciousness has made only a little progress, but the Kṛṣṇa consciousness movement has reported that the world is sinking fast and that <em>māyā</em> is gradually surrendering her hold. We are assaulting <em>māyā's</em> strongholds. Our <em>saṅkīrtana</em> vans are assault-vehicles from which the devotees spring forth to battle <em>māyā</em> by distributing Śrīla Prabhupāda's books all over the world. We must be determined because <em>māyā</em> is fighting a dirty, messy war against Kṛṣṇa consciousness.

The month of December is holy because it is the month of the mahā-marathon. This marathon should make all the other marathons we have ever done look like kids' stuff. We have <em>māyā</em> on the run. All over the world people are beginning to understand that there is no hope with <em>māyā</em> and no solution except Kṛṣṇa. But don't give up and think that we have done enough and we cannot do any more. Keep on pushing until you see a breakthrough, and then become enthusiastic to do even more. When you understand that Kṛṣṇa consciousness is the only solution, you will want to increase your distribution unlimitedly. You will want to do three hundred books in an hour. Although that seems a little unreasonable, if you set your sights high, Kṛṣṇa will give you the ability to make wonderful things happen.

Think big! Śrīla Prabhupāda never thought little. He said that his disease was that he could not think little; he could only think big. Now all of his sons and daughters, grandsons and granddaughters have contracted this hereditary disease—we have to think big. If you only think little, of course you may accomplish your goal. But what is the use of that? You should try to become Kṛṣṇa conscious and think, “Yes, we are going to take over the world for Kṛṣṇa." Taking over the world does not mean political or economic takeover. It means we want to establish that Kṛṣṇa is <em>param īśvara</em>, the supreme controller, and not <em>māyā</em>.

If we set our sights big and go out during the Prabhupāda Marathon with enthusiasm, regardless of what our normal occupation might be, we will be able to distribute enormous amounts of books. We should never forget that each of us is a part of the biggest mission. Every devotee has a big part to play because there are so few of us and the mission is so big. No one should underestimate the importance of his role within this mission, and everyone should push on without any other thought in mind.

sub=Pick a Fight with the Asuras

Kṛṣṇa is not without desire. Out of His causeless mercy, He instructs His associates to kindly descend into the material world to distribute transcendental knowledge. Śrīla Prabhupāda once said that he was peacefully situated in the spiritual world, when Kṛṣṇa asked him, "Could you go down to the material world and preach? Don't worry, I will take care of everything. Just go down and write your books.” In this way Prabhupāda came to the material world to pick a fight with the <em>asuras</em>.

Śrīla Prabhupāda's books disturb the demoniac mentality because the demons cannot tolerate spiritual knowledge. The demons want everybody to remain in ignorance and suffering forever. Because of the resistance of the demons, the Kṛṣṇa consciousness movement must enter the demoniac society like a needle, so that we can bring spiritual knowledge to the people of this world. Then this Kṛṣṇa consciousness movement can turn into a plow and transform this world by spiritual revolution.

Kṛṣṇa wants this transformation to take place and He has chosen us to do it, not because we are qualified but because Kṛṣṇa is giving us the mercy. The spreading of this Kṛṣṇa consciousness movement through the distribution of transcendental knowledge is the greatest benediction of our lives, for by establishing Kṛṣṇa consciousness in others, we also establish it in ourselves.

sub=We Are Ready for Saṅkīrtana-samādhi

We take advantage of associating together, so that when we depart to our respective destinations, our minds will be fixed on satisfying Śrīla Prabhupāda by distributing hundreds of thousands of his books. If we have in our hearts the desire to perform this <em>saṅkīrtana</em> mission with love and devotion, we will be successful. Now is the time to free ourselves from all other thoughts and desires and go into <em>saṅkīrtana-samādhi</em>. We have finished with <em>āsana</em> and <em>prāṇāyāma</em>. We have finished with <em>dhyāna</em> and <em>dhāraṇā</em>. We are now ready for full absorption in our worshipable object—the mercy of Lord Caitanya and Śrīla Prabhupāda.

We are asking everyone to shift into high gear and turn up the steam, for we want to start chugging away on the train back home, back to Godhead and we don't want any slow pokes or anchors hanging out the back. Yet this train is big and we want all the living entities to come aboard, so we are in the engine compartment, stoking up the engine by offering these books in the fire of the <em>saṅkīrtana-yajña</em>. And the more we offer these books to people, the more the engine is getting hot enough to go back to Godhead.

Many people have Śrīla Prabhupāda's books sitting on their bookshelves, many are reading the books, and many are convinced that Kṛṣṇa consciousness is the best thing—they just don't want to admit it right now because they are afraid that they will appear foolish to others. But one day all these people will stand up for what they know to be good, and when they do, they will turn around and see thousands of Hare Kṛṣṇa centers.

Our traveling preaching parties are like fishermen. Our nets comb the ocean of nescience and pick up fish who don't get out of the way and who like to be caught in the net, and we put the fish in little bowls called <em>nāma-haṭṭa</em> centers. Then other people can come and see them, and more and more people can learn about chanting Hare Kṛṣṇa.

The spreading of this Kṛṣṇa consciousness movement begins with, is maintained with, and will go on to successful culmination by the distribution of Śrīla Prabhupāda's books. Book distribution makes everything successful, but stopping book distribution makes everything go to hell; therefore we must go on with this book distribution mission. If it is not going on, you should feel so terrible that you will not be able to sleep. Every devotee should be so dedicated that he is ready to do anything to keep the <em>saṅkīrtana</em> mission increasing.

We request all of you to please, kindly take up this mission very strongly and sincerely, and don't stop. We will go on requesting this until everyone takes it up very seriously. Even then we will still request it because it is the nicest request. We will never be satisfied to request anything else. If you go on with this transcendental <em>saṅkīrtana</em> mission, producing and distributing transcendental literature and teaching others transcendental knowledge, both you and those you meet will be happy and successful. You will especially please Śrīla Prabhupāda, Śrīla Bhaktisiddhānta Sarasvatī Ṭhākura, and the entire disciplic succession, and they will shower their blessings upon you.

It is guaranteed that those who engage in this <em>saṅkīrtana</em> mission will go back home, back to Godhead. Lord Caitanya Himself said to one of His devotees, "You just go on preaching, and in the future you will have My association again in this place.” Preaching in separation is a higher service. Lord Caitanya guarantees that if we go on preaching and expanding this Kṛṣṇa consciousness movement, then without a doubt we will have Lord Caitanya's association in the spiritual world.

sub=Make Book Distribution Your Lifelong Mission

On behalf of Śrīla Prabhupāda and the previous <em>ācāryas</em>, I would like to thank everybody who has participated in this marathon or in the year-long <em>saṅkīrtana</em> marathon. This is the way to get the mercy. Although we make distinctions between number one, number two, and number three, everyone is a winner regardless of how one is placed according to his results. That is why everyone gets a prize in our <em>saṅkīrtana</em> marathon review at the end of the year. The amazing thing about the <em>saṅkīrtana-yajña</em> is that everyone is a winner and no one is a loser. Everyone is number one in the eyes of his spiritual master, who sees that someone has tried his hardest to spread the Kṛṣṇa consciousness movement.

Maybe one person has a greater capacity than somebody else, but that doesn't matter as long as you go out and give one hundred percent of your capacity. It doesn't matter if you are number one, thirty-eight, or one hundred thirty-eight, as long as you are giving as much as you can. We would never expect our "big guns” to do less than big results because that is what they can do. Yet we are surprised to see other devotees who hadn't been “big guns” in the past now doing so wonderfully, coming up to the top ten. They are granted mercy from all the Vaiṣṇavas without any hesitation.

The <em>saṅkīrtana</em> mission is a lifelong mission. Some of you may not go on forever distributing books because at the age of fifty or sometimes even before that, the body rebels, although Grandfather Rohiṇīsuta Prabhu is teaching us that even with gray hair you can still go out. Even when your teeth are falling out and you have to walk with a cane, you can still tell people to please take a book. We can learn a good lesson from the older book distributors. We can keep going on, and the body can miraculously stay in good shape. There are people in the material world who run one-hundred-mile marathons when they are over fifty years old. If some old ladies can run a one-hundred-mile marathon, certainly the devotees can go on distributing books to a grand old age. Maybe your distribution methods will change and maybe you will distribute books from a wheelchair, but you can go on with this book distribution mission no matter what.

Śrīla Prabhupāda is pleased with everyone all over the world who has taken up this book distribution mission. Whatever country you come from, whether you are a man or a woman, in this book distribution mission everybody is equally, ecstatically engaged in Śrīla Prabhupāda's service. Therefore we offer our humble obeisances and respects to all the <em>saṅkīrtana</em> heroes. I personally would love to go around and collect the dust from all the lotus feet of the <em>saṅkīrtana</em> devotees and place it on my head, so that maybe one day I can also become purified. If it is true that Harināmānanda Prabhu works with Kṛṣṇa and Kṛṣṇa supplies whatever he wants, I beg him to kindly grant me some <em>kṛṣṇa-prema</em>, so that I can also go back home, back to Godhead.

If you really want to please Śrīla Prabhupāda, then just distribute his books. We don't want the <em>saṅkīrtana</em> mission to be a one-day mission or a couple-of-years mission. We don't want to be meteors flashing across the sky for a short time and then giving up. We don't want to be comets, brightly lighting up the sky but then going away. We want to be steady in devotional service throughout our lives, whether we are engaged directly in the <em>saṅkīrtana</em> mission or preaching to inspire the <em>saṅkīrtana</em> mission or supporting it. Whatever part you play in this <em>saṅkīrtana</em> movement, play it fully and completely with enthusiasm and devotion, and then you will be happy.

Even though the world may fall apart, and most places are already falling apart, distributing these books is the way to conquer the world for Kṛṣṇa. Just by giving the people these books, they can read Śrīla Prabhupāda's words and become transcendentally enlivened and inspired to go back home, back to Godhead.

sub=Following Śrīla Prabhupāda Throughout the Universe

Let us try to develop our love for Kṛṣṇa despite all the disturbances of the material condition, and let us, in the mood of love for Kṛṣṇa, go on distributing transcendental literature throughout human society. When you truly have love for the Supreme Personality of Godhead, you will want to distribute His message far and wide because you will have Kṛṣṇa's mood of giving Kṛṣṇa consciousness to others.

That mood was demonstrated by Śrī Caitanya Mahāprabhu, who spent six years traveling around India, bringing Kṛṣṇa consciousness to all the people there. He would just embrace you, and because of having contact with Lord Caitanya's transcendental body, you would become fully Kṛṣṇa conscious. Then you would run off and embrace somebody else, who would also become fully Kṛṣṇa conscious.

Although we may not have the potency to make people Kṛṣṇa conscious by embracing them, at least we have the potency to give Śrīla Prabhupāda's books to everyone. Śrīla Prabhupāda's books are filled with the potency to make people Kṛṣṇa conscious. By embracing his purports, people can become ecstatic with love of Godhead because these purports are Śrīla Prabhupāda's transcendental ecstasies.

Therefore we should be eager to distribute these books more and more throughout the world and satisfy Śrīla Prabhupāda's desire that his books be distributed in great quantities. Whatever he wants, we also want. Whatever is the order of the previous <em>ācāryas</em>, we take to heart and follow. As long as we have life in these bodies, we will go on with this transcendental mission of book distribution, and even when these bodies don't have life in them anymore, we will go on with this mission in the next life.

Some of us, of course, may want to go back home, back to Godhead. If you have been distributing these books throughout this life, you have the right to want to go back home, back to Godhead. Wanting to go back home, back to Godhead, is an advanced state of consciousness, but it is even more advanced to think, “Let me just distribute these books for the rest of my lives. Life after life, let me follow Śrīla Prabhupāda throughout the universe and fulfill my responsibility to him by bringing back all these lost conditioned souls.” Whether you want to go right back to Godhead or follow Śrīla Prabhupāda throughout the universe is up to you, but right now we want to distribute Kṛṣṇa consciousness by distributing these books, so we beg you to take this mission seriously and increase your distribution more and more. And in this way you will become happy.

sub=Perfection

What is perfection? In our opinion, perfection means to dedicate your life and soul to producing and distributing Śrīla Prabhupāda's books. Somehow or other get that mission done! Be a part of the <em>saṅkīrtana</em> movement, either by directly distributing or by supporting the distribution, and help others to get Śrīla Prabhupāda's mercy.

We worship the Supreme Lord through the worship of His transcendental literature; therefore we should distribute it with incredible enthusiasm for the sake of humanity at large. Don't be stingy! Don't be lazy! Don't be foolish! Don't be mental! Don't speculate! Don't hesitate! And don't wait! Just jump into the transcendental bliss of capturing the lotus feet of the Lord through this book distribution process.

